# Chapter 1

## Introduction
Bitcoin introduced a way to provide a censorship resistant currency without the need for an intermediary. The underlying technology used is a blockchain, a peer-to-peer distributed ledger in which updates are done through Proof of Work (PoW). 

These features, however, make it such that Bitcoin is transparent and all the transactions are open available to everyone. Anyone can see who you are transacting with and nothing is private. Even though, there are steps users can take to increase their privacy on Bitcoin, there will always be significant leaks that make retracing transactions quite easy for a well-resourced adversary.

Zcash aims to increase privacy through the addition of zero-knowledged proofs. It uses Bitcoin as its base and adds ZK-SNARKs to provide privacy to its users. 


### Goals
Zcash is a cryptocurrency that uses advanced cryptography and mathematical techniques. It relies on newer research in the subfield of zero-knowledge proofs. As such, Zcash makes use of cutting-edge cryptographic techniques that elude even expert cryptographers.

The goal is to take the reader without a bakground in mathematics through the mathematical concepts needed in order to start understanding this research and thus the internal workings of Zcash.


### Readership
We expect readers to be developers with little to no knowledge of discrete mathematics, complexity theory, abstract algebra, cryptography and blockchains. More advanced readers can still gain a lot of information by skipping through to the necessary parts of the book as needed.

### Brief History of Zcash Blockchain
Zcash was created in October 2016 based on Zerocash, an academic proposal for decentralized anonymous payments, first proposed in 2014. The Zcash cryptocurrency is currently maintained by the Eletric Coin Company and the Zcash Foundation.


### Outline
As the aim is a self-contained introduction to Zcash, we have outlined the book as follows:

Chapter 2 develops the various mathemtical concepts needed to understand the core technology behind Zcash, ZK-SNARKs.

Chapter 3 introduces Pedersen Commitments, an important cryptographic primitive introduced in Chapter 2.

Chapter 4 introduces the reader to ZK-SNARKs.

Now, that the foundation has been set, Chapter 5 introduces readers to how Zcash transactions work and how users can get privacy.

Finally, Chapter 6 gives a complete description of the Zcash blockchain.

### Disclaimer
This book is a community project and is not affiliated with the Eletric Coin Company.